Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

[Health](https://www.nytimes.com/section/health)

[Today’s Paper](https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper)

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Supported by

Continue reading the main story

# Health

  1. [Health Policy](/section/health/policy)
  2. [Global Health](/column/global-health)
  3. [The New Old Age](/column/the-new-old-age)
  4. [Science](/section/science)
  5. [Well](/section/well/)
  6. [Coronavirus Outbreak](/news-event/coronavirus)

## Highlights

  1. Photo![A back-to-school resource fair the day before schools reopened in Los Angeles County this year.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/28/science/00VIRUS-KIDS-EXPLAINER1/merlin_175828209_6a23c616-39a2-4586-9bf6-ae96f438665d-jumbo.jpg)CreditEtienne Laurent/EPA, via Shutterstock

## [A Parent’s Toughest Call: In-Person Schooling or Not?](/2020/09/01/health
/coronavirus-parents-schools.html)

Parents are wrestling with difficult choices over sending their children to
school. Here’s how one science reporter made the decision.

By Apoorva Mandavilli

  2. Photo![Students welcomed back to class at a school in Metairie, La., in August.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01VIRUS-CHILDREN1/01VIRUS-CHILDREN1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditMax Becherer/The Advocate, via Associated Press

## [Why the Coronavirus More Often Strikes Children of
Color](/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-children-minorities.html)

Children in minority communities are much more likely to become infected and
severely ill. Many have parents who are frontline workers, experts say.

By Roni Caryn Rabin

  3. Photo![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/autossell/Onsite-Promo-Next-Pandemic-083120-final/Onsite-Promo-Next-Pandemic-083120-final-videoLarge.jpg)

__

Credit

## [How to Stop the Next Pandemic](/video/health/100000007293397/covid-
pandemics-causes-documentary.html)

It’s not just Covid-19. Pathogens once confined to nature are making their way
into humans on a more regular basis. And it’s our fault.

By Jonah M. Kessel

  4. Photo![A study of travelers on two buses in China in January adds to mounting evidence that the virus is airborne and can be transmitted through small particles that linger in the air indoors.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01VIRUS-AIRBORNE/01VIRUS-AIRBORNE-videoLarge.jpg)CreditHector Retamal/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

## [How a Bus Ride Turned Into a Coronavirus Superspreader
Event](/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-bus-china.html)

One-third of passengers aboard a bus were infected by a fellow passenger,
scientists reported.

By Roni Caryn Rabin

  1. Photo![A study found 13 percent of participants struggled so much to recognize masked faces that they may as well have suffered from prosopagnosia, or face blindness.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/00VIRUS-FACEBLIND/00VIRUS-FACEBLIND-videoLarge.jpg)CreditAaron Favila/Associated Press

## [In an Era of Face Masks, We’re All a Little More Face
Blind](/2020/08/31/health/covid-masks-face-blindness.html)

Your brain’s powers of facial recognition are going to need some time to get
used to the coverings we’re wearing to keep each other healthy.

By Elizabeth Preston

  2. Photo![Some of the Obama-era program’s money supported researchers in China working with bats, which can carry coronaviruses like the one that causes Covid-19.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/28/science/28VIRUS-PREDICT1/28VIRUS-PREDICT1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditEcoHealth Alliance

## [U.S. Will Revive Global Virus-Hunting Effort Ended Last
Year](/2020/08/30/health/predict-pandemic-usaid.html)

A federal agency is resurrecting a version of Predict, a scientific network
that for a decade watched for new pathogens dangerous to humans. Joe Biden has
also vowed to fund the effort.

By Donald G. McNeil Jr. and Thomas Kaplan

  3. Photo![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/29/science/29SKIN-promo/29SKIN-promo-videoLarge.jpg)CreditSarahbeth Maney for The New York Times

## [Dermatology Has a Problem With Skin Color](/2020/08/30/health/skin-
diseases-black-hispanic.html)

Common conditions often manifest differently on dark skin. Yet physicians are
trained mostly to diagnose them on white skin.

By Roni Caryn Rabin

  4. Photo![Marilyn Cortez of Houston spent much of July in the hospital with the coronavirus. When she finally returned home, she received a $36,000 hospital bill.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/24/science/00VIRUS-UNINSURED1/00VIRUS-UNINSURED1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditMichael Starghill Jr. for The New York Times

## [Trump Program to Cover Uninsured Covid-19 Patients Falls Short of
Promise](/2020/08/29/health/Covid-obamacare-uninsured.html)

Some patients are still receiving staggering bills. Others don’t qualify
because conditions other than Covid-19 were their primary diagnosis.

By Abby Goodnough

  5. Photo![Tests authorized by the F.D.A. provide only a yes-no answer to infection, and will identify as positive patients with low amounts of virus in their bodies.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/30/science/30virus-test-print/22VIRUS-TEST-videoLarge.jpg)CreditJohnny Milano for The New York Times

## [Your Coronavirus Test Is Positive. Maybe It Shouldn’t
Be.](/2020/08/29/health/coronavirus-testing.html)

The usual diagnostic tests may simply be too sensitive and too slow to contain
the spread of the virus.

By Apoorva Mandavilli

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## [From Well](/section/well)

[More in From Well »](/section/well)

  1. Photo![A woman wearing a face shield jogs with her dog at the beach in Del Mar, Calif.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/well/well-faceshield/merlin_175910532_33776b8f-34d5-4e22-8f51-477184162f27-videoLarge.jpg)CreditMike Blake/Reuters

## [Face Shields and Valved Masks Offer More Comfort but Less
Protection](/2020/09/01/well/live/face-shields-masks-valves-vents.html)

While any face covering is better than nothing, clear plastic shields and
masks with exhale valves allow large plumes of particles to escape and may
also expose the wearer to more germs.

By Tara Parker-Pope

  2. Photo![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01-BRODY-HYPOTESNSION/01-BRODY-HYPOTESNSION-videoLarge.jpg)CreditGracia Lam

## [Dizziness Upon Standing Can Lead to Falls and
Fractures](/2020/08/31/well/live/dizziness-upon-standing-can-lead-to-falls-
and-fractures.html)

The problem, a brief but precipitous drop in blood pressure that causes
lightheadedness or dizziness when standing up, is called orthostatic
hypotension.

By Jane E. Brody

  3. Photo![Jen A. Miller has run a number of clothed 5K races, but a clothing-optional race had never beckoned, until this year.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/31/well/28NAKEDRUN-print/28NAKEDRUN-promo-videoLarge.jpg)CreditMichelle Gustafson for The New York Times

## [In a Naked Pandemic Race, You Can Leave Your Hat On](/2020/08/28/well/move
/running-race-nudist-resort-naked.html)

When we can’t go outside without covering our faces, there’s a special appeal
in the opportunity to uncover everything else.

By Jen A. Miller

  4. Photo![Maccabee Veder, left, 14, and Kalea Jade, 9, prepare bags of donated food as volunteers at the Nourish LA program at the Wood Cafe in Culver City, Calif.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/well/00well-schiffman2/00well-schiffman2-videoLarge-v2.jpg)CreditNikolaos Mavromichalis

## [Young People Are Fighting Hunger and Finding
Purpose](/2020/09/01/well/family/kids-food-hunger-volunteering.html)

“These amazing young kids are running the whole show,” said the owner of the
Wood Cafe, which gives away food. “Their energy propels it.”

By Richard Schiffman

  5. Photo![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/well/physed-cycling1/merlin_174605787_07ebb5d0-a922-45ae-843c-e24796f1a9bb-videoLarge.jpg)CreditAlec Jacobson for The New York Times

## [Exercise May Boost Your Vaccine Response](/2020/08/26/well/move/exercise-
may-boost-your-vaccine-response.html)

Two new studies of elite athletes found that working out amplifies the immune
response to a flu shot.

By Gretchen Reynolds

## [The Coronavirus Outbreak](/news-event/coronavirus)

[More in The Coronavirus Outbreak »](/news-event/coronavirus)

  1. Photo![President Trump has taken credit for relative calm in Wisconsin and Minnesota, even though his calls to send in the National Guard came after the governors had already done so.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/us/politics/01dc-factcheck/01dc-factcheck-videoLarge.jpg)CreditAnna Moneymaker for The New York Times

## [Trump’s False and Misleading Statements About Protests and
Violence](/2020/09/01/us/politics/trump-fact-check-protests.html)

The president has wrongly claimed credit for sending in the National Guard. He
has also made misleading assertions in attacking his Democratic rival, Joseph
R. Biden Jr.

By Linda Qiu

  2. Photo![Demonstrators in San Francisco last month called for an extension of a state eviction ban. A federal move on Tuesday would bar evictions for most tenants for the rest of 2020.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/business/01virus-eviction/merlin_175674150_ee2cc132-b73d-4d29-8b86-af37afb13b08-videoLarge.jpg)CreditJim Wilson/The New York Times

## [U.S. Orders Eviction Moratorium for Most Through Year’s
End](/2020/09/01/business/eviction-moratorium-order.html)

The C.D.C. action cited the coronavirus risk if tenants are forced into
shelters or other crowded quarters. It did not lift their rent obligation.

By Matthew Goldstein

  3. Photo![Un voluntario recibe una vacuna experimental de coronavirus en Soweto, Sudáfrica. Algunos investigadores se preocupan por el uso de enfoques no comprobados en algunas de esas vacunas.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-virus-preclinical-00/00SCI-VIRUS-PRECLINICAL1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditLuca Sola/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

## [Los riesgos de llegar primero: las nuevas vacunas de COVID podrían no ser
las mejores](/es/2020/09/01/espanol/ciencia-y-tecnologia/vacuna-
coronavirus.html)

En todo el mundo, decenas de grupos de investigadores están en una carrera de
largo plazo, convencidos de que sus vacunas experimentales serán menos
costosas y más potentes que las que ahora lideran la contienda.

By Carl Zimmer

  4. Photo![Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin called on Congress on Tuesday to reach an agreement on stimulus measures.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/business/01DC-MNUCHIN-01/merlin_176453034_4b7041f2-73fc-4c26-b632-81edb0e105ad-videoLarge.jpg)CreditPool photo by Nicholas Kamm

## [Mnuchin Says Economy Is Recovering but ‘More Work’ Is Needed to Alleviate
Pain](/2020/09/01/business/economy/mnuchin-coronavirus.html)

The Treasury secretary’s House testimony, combined with renewed stimulus
discussions among Republicans, highlighted divisions over how big an economic
package should be.

By Jim Tankersley and Nicholas Fandos

  5. Photo![Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s presidential campaign introduced campaign signs in Animal Crossing: New Horizons. It was the latest foray by a presidential campaign into the virtual world of gaming.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/multimedia/00xp-bidencrossing/00xp-bidencrossing-videoLarge.png)CreditJoe Biden 2020

## [Biden Campaign Courts the Animal Crossing Vote With Yard
Signs](/2020/09/01/us/politics/biden-animal-crossing.html)

Past candidates have tried to capitalize on popular video games, with mixed
results. Will it be different this time, in the island paradises of the
Nintendo Switch?

By Derrick Bryson Taylor and Aimee Ortiz

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

  * Latest
  * Search

Search

__Clear this text input

  1. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/29/business/00anxiety-ads/00anxiety-ads-thumbWide.png?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [In Hard Times, a Barrage of Ads Promises Peace of Mind

Meditation apps, tinctures, stress-busting gummies — spending on commercials
for all of them is rising amid the pandemic’s climbing death toll and economic
strain.

By Tiffany Hsu

](/2020/09/01/business/media/coronavirus-anxiety-depression-ads.html)

  2. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/business/01virus-applegoogle/merlin_176456193_0c986670-67f1-42c6-9e3b-092685be1da2-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Apple and Google to Make It Easier to Opt In to Virus Tracing

The tech giants said states could soon send notices directly to smartphones
asking people to opt in to the technology, which helps trace the coronavirus.

By Jack Nicas and Natasha Singer

](/2020/09/01/technology/apple-google-virus-alert-technology.html)

  3. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/us/us-briefing-promo-image-print/us-briefing-promo-image-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Covid-19 Live Updates: C.D.C. Halts Evictions, Citing Health Risks

Florida severed ties with Quest for taking too long to report test results.
Medical experts cast doubt on the use of antibody-rich plasma to help
hospitalized coronavirus patients.

](/2020/09/01/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html)

  4. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/07/14/smarter-living/well-pog-heart/well-pog-heart-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [‘Sudden’ Cardiac Arrests Often Aren’t So Sudden

Researchers found that 57 percent of patients had contacted either a doctor or
a hospital in the two weeks before the event.

By Nicholas Bakalar

](/2020/09/01/well/live/sudden-cardiac-arrests-often-arent-so-sudden.html)

  5. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-DIYVACCINE2/01SCI-DIYVACCINE2-thumbWide-v2.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [These Scientists Are Giving Themselves D.I.Y. Coronavirus Vaccines

Impatient for a coronavirus vaccine, dozens of scientists around the world are
giving themselves — and sometimes, friends and family — their own unproven
versions.

By Heather Murphy

](/2020/09/01/science/covid-19-vaccine-diy.html)

  6. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/us/31virus-thumbnail/merlin_175997361_b739fb8a-cf36-40cd-9561-ed8aed028b2f-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [The Midwest Sees a Spike as Covid-19 Cases Decline Elsewhere

In nine U.S. states, case numbers are still rising or setting records. The
virus is pummeling the economies of India and South Korea. Hong Kong began a
Beijing-backed testing program.

](/2020/08/31/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html)

  7. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/31/well/31well-klass/31well-klass-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

### [The Checkup

## Helping Children With Pandemic Grief

Many children may learn of a grandparent’s death without a chance to visit to
say goodbye.

By Perri Klass, M.D.

](/2020/08/31/well/family/children-coronavirus-grandparents-grief.html)

  8. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/29/us/politics/30virus-briefing-test/merlin_176296350_90035685-54ff-4894-b8fc-10413dc9aa08-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [U.S. Coronavirus Cases Top 6 Million

The jump in infections comes as the daily rate continues to decline. New Delhi
is reopening its subway, even as India sets global records for new cases.

](/2020/08/30/world/coronavirus-covid.html)

  9. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/22/world/22Veterans-Psychedelics-Top/merlin_175109595_f130c047-9103-4ea4-b0c4-e8272e88159b-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [‘A Hail Mary’: Psychedelic Therapy Draws Veterans to Jungle Retreats

Ayahuasca, a vomit-inducing hallucinogenic brew, draws thousands of people
each year — including former soldiers — to jungle retreats that have become an
unlicensed and unregulated mental health marketplace.

By Ernesto Londoño and Adam Ferguson

](/2020/08/30/world/americas/psychedelics-therapy-war-stress.html)

[Leer en español](https://www.nytimes.com/es/2020/08/30/espanol/america-latina
/ayahuasca-costa-rica.html)

  10. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/29/science/29colon/29colon-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [What to Know About Colon Cancer

The cancer that killed Chadwick Boseman is the second-leading cause of cancer
deaths in the United States, and rates are rising among younger people.

By Pam Belluck

](/2020/08/29/health/colon-cancer-chadwick-boseman.html)

[阅读简体中文版](https://cn.nytimes.com/health/20200831/colon-cancer-chadwick-
boseman/)[閱讀繁體中文版](https://cn.nytimes.com/health/20200831/colon-cancer-
chadwick-boseman/zh-hant/)

Show More

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Follow Us

  * __[@nythealthtwitter page for @nythealth](https://twitter.com/nythealth)
  * __[NYTimesSciencefacebook page for NYTimesScience](https://www.facebook.com/NYTimesScience)
  * __[WellNYTfacebook page for WellNYT](https://www.facebook.com/WellNYT)
  * __[@nytimeswelltwitter page for @nytimeswell](https://twitter.com/nytimeswell)

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Site Index

## Site Information Navigation

  * [© 2020 The New York Times Company](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  * [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  * [Contact Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  * [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  * [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  * [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  * [Your Ad Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  * [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  * [Terms of Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  * [Terms of Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  * [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  * [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  * [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

Sections

SEARCH

Skip to contentSkip to site index

[Science](https://www.nytimes.com/section/science)

[Today’s Paper](https://www.nytimes.com/section/todayspaper)

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

Supported by

Continue reading the main story

# Science

  1. [Climate](/section/climate)
  2. [Space & Cosmos](/section/science/space)
  3. [Health](/section/health)
  4. [Trilobites](/column/trilobites)
  5. [Sciencetake](/column/sciencetake)
  6. [Out There](/column/out-there)
  7. [Coronavirus Outbreak](/news-event/coronavirus)

## Highlights

  1. Photo![Preston Estep, chief scientist and co-founder of RaDVaC, administering an eighth iteration of his vaccine on August 19.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-DIYVACCINE2/merlin_175949853_c8cf1b9d-cdca-4bb5-a6a2-0e296fdbc525-jumbo.jpg)CreditKayana Szymczak for The New York Times

## [These Scientists Are Giving Themselves D.I.Y. Coronavirus
Vaccines](/2020/09/01/science/covid-19-vaccine-diy.html)

Impatient for a coronavirus vaccine, dozens of scientists around the world are
giving themselves — and sometimes, friends and family — their own unproven
versions.

By Heather Murphy

  2. Photo![Three 2,500-year-old Phoenician figurines recovered from the Mediterranean. The leftmost and center figurines carry a symbol associated with Tanit, a mother goddess of the Phoenician pantheon.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/science/00SCI-FIGURINES1/00SCI-FIGURINES1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditJonathan J. Gottlieb

## [From the Seabed, Figures of an Ancient Cult](/2020/09/01/science
/archaeology-phoenician-israel-shavei-zion.html)

A trove of Phoenician artifacts was long ascribed to a single shipwreck. More
likely they were tossed overboard, and over centuries, a new study suggests.

By Joshua Rapp Learn

  3. Photo![At her home in New York in August.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01SCI-SARACHIK3/01SCI-SARACHIK3-videoLarge.jpg)CreditCalla Kessler for The New York Times

### Profiles in Science

## [Myriam Sarachik Never Gave Up on Physics](/2020/08/31/science/myriam-
sarachik-physics.html)

The New York-based scientist overcame sexism and personal tragedy to make
major contributions to the field, for which she received recognition this
year.

By Kenneth Chang

  4. Photo![Scientists investigating sightings of possible New Guinea Singing Dogs on Papua New Guinea were able to retrieve DNA samples from trapped wild dogs in 2018.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/31/science/31TB-SINGINGDOGS/31TB-SINGINGDOGS-videoLarge.jpg)CreditAnang Dianto

### Trilobites

## [Singing Dogs Re-emerge From Extinction for Another
Tune](/2020/08/31/science/singing-dog-new-guinea.html)

The animal was believed to have disappeared from the highlands of New Guinea,
but was found on the island’s Indonesian side.

By James Gorman

  1. ### Trilobites

Photo![Houses in the village of Piedilama, in the central Apennine Mountains
of Italy, destroyed by earthquakes in October
2016.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/29TB-QUAKE1/29TB-
QUAKE1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditWitold Skrypczak/Alamy

## [Did Something Burp? It Was an Earthquake](/2020/08/29/science/earthquakes-
carbon-dioxide.html)

Years of observations in central Italy show that more carbon dioxide
percolates through Earth’s crust during periods of strong seismic activity.

By Katherine Kornei

  2. ### Trilobites

Photo![Bawwwwwwwwww!](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/29/science/27TB-
DINOFACE1/merlin_176209242_f90123d3-d1b6-479f-b18b-f0315f15638a-
videoLarge.jpg)CreditMartin Kundrát

## [Fossil Reveals ‘One of the Cutest Dinosaurs’ Ever
Found](/2020/08/27/science/dinosaur-face-fossil.html)

While many fossils have been flattened by time and the elements, a titanosaur
found in an egg was preserved in three dimensions.

By Lucas Joel

  3. Photo![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/11/climate/00CLI-PLASTIC-fader4/00CLI-PLASTIC-fader4-videoLarge-v2.jpg)Credit

## [Big Oil Is in Trouble. Its Plan: Flood Africa With
Plastic.](/2020/08/30/climate/oil-kenya-africa-plastics-trade.html)

Faced with plunging profits and a climate crisis that threatens fossil fuels,
the industry is demanding a trade deal that weakens Kenya’s rules on plastics
and on imports of American trash.

By Hiroko Tabuchi, Michael Corkery and Carlos Mureithi

  4. ### Trilobites

Photo![An artist&rsquo;s conception of Lystrosaurus in a state of torpor.
Though its name means &ldquo;shovel lizard,&rdquo; it was more closely related
to mammals.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/27TB-
HIBERNATION1/27TB-HIBERNATION1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditCrystal Shin

## [250 Million Years Ago, They Hibernated at the Bottom of the
World](/2020/08/27/science/fossil-hibernation.html)

In the tusks of creatures that lived before dinosaurs, paleontologists found
signs of hibernation-like metabolism.

By Kenneth Chang

  5. ### Trilobites

Photo![Lepidophthirus macrorhini lice dwell on the rear limbs of southern
elephant seals, which spend nearly 10 months of the year in Antarctic waters
and may stay under for nearly two hours at a
time.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/26TB-LICE1/26TB-
LICE1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditLeonardi Lab

## [You Can’t Escape Lice, Even 6,500 Feet Below the
Ocean](/2020/08/26/science/lice-elephant-seals.html)

A species of insect tags along with elephant seals as they spend months at
sea, enduring the crushing pressure changes of the mammals’ dives.

By Priyanka Runwal

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## [Trilobites](/column/trilobites)

[More in Trilobites »](/column/trilobites)

  1. Photo![A laser reflecting panel, called a retroreflector, left by the Apollo 14 astronauts in 1971.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/science/15SCI-MOONDUST1/15SCI-MOONDUST1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditNASA

## [How Do You Solve a Moon Mystery? Fire a Laser at It](/2020/08/15/science
/moon-lasers-dust.html)

Researchers have used reflective prisms left on the moon’s surface for
decades, but had increasingly seen problems with their effectiveness.

By Katherine Kornei

  2. Photo![A male southern elephant seal on South Georgia Island. The seals have become scientific collaborators, helping track under-ice ocean currents in Antarctica&rsquo;s marginal ice zone.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/18/science/17SCI-SEAL/17SCI-SEAL-videoLarge-v2.jpg)CreditMichel & Gabrielle Therin-Weise/Alamy

## [How 14 Elephant Seals Assisted an Antarctic Ice Study](/2020/08/14/science
/antarctica-ocean-ice-seals.html)

Mapping currents in the Southern Ocean is vital to monitoring climate change,
but hard to conduct. So scientists turned to seals for help.

By Oliver Whang

  3. Photo![A male Thoropa taophora frog of Brazil.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/science/12TB-FROGMATING1/12TB-FROGMATING1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditF&aacute;bio de S&aacute;

## [He Doesn’t Mind Being Shared, Unless His Mates Try to Eat Each Other’s
Eggs](/2020/08/12/science/frog-group-fidelity.html)

A Brazilian frog species engages in reproductive behavior never seen in
amphibians before.

By Katherine J. Wu

  4. Photo![An artist&rsquo;s rendering of the Triassic Era aquatic reptile Tanystropheus. Its nine-foot neck contained only 13 vertebrae.](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/science/12TB-REPTILE1/12TB-REPTILE1-videoLarge.jpg)CreditEmma Finley-Jacob

## [Making Sense of ‘One of the Most Baffling Animals That Ever
Lived’](/2020/08/12/science/reptile-long-neck-fossil.html)

Important mysteries have been solved about a reptile with a giraffe-like neck
that hunted prey 242 million years ago.

By Asher Elbein

  5. Photo![Researchers found that bees&rsquo; tongues are so sensitive to the viscosity of nectar that &ldquo;they switch at the exact point you would expect, to get the best reward for the energy invested.&rdquo;](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/science/11TB-BEES/11TB-BEES-videoLarge.jpg)CreditJiangkun Wei

## [A Honeybee’s Tongue Is More Swiss Army Knife Than
Ladle](/2020/08/11/science/honeybees-drink-video.html)

Once again, insects prove to be more complicated than scientists thought they
were.

By James Gorman

  * Latest
  * Search

Search

__Clear this text input

  1. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01VIRUS-AIRBORNE/01VIRUS-AIRBORNE-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [How a Bus Ride Turned Into a Coronavirus Superspreader Event

One-third of passengers aboard a bus were infected by a fellow passenger,
scientists reported.

By Roni Caryn Rabin

](/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-bus-china.html)

[阅读简体中文版](https://cn.nytimes.com/health/20200902/coronavirus-bus-
china/)[閱讀繁體中文版](https://cn.nytimes.com/health/20200902/coronavirus-bus-china
/zh-hant/)

  2. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/30/multimedia/00xp-roanoke-pix1/00xp-roanoke-pix1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Roanoke’s ‘Lost Colony’ Was Never Lost, New Book Says

A new book aims to settle a centuries-old question of what happened to a group
of English colonists. Archaeologists said that its theory was plausible but
that more evidence was needed.

By Alan Yuhas

](/2020/09/01/us/Roanoke-lost-colony.html)

  3. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/01VIRUS-CHILDREN1/01VIRUS-CHILDREN1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Why the Coronavirus More Often Strikes Children of Color

Children in minority communities are much more likely to become infected and
severely ill. Many have parents who are frontline workers, experts say.

By Roni Caryn Rabin

](/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-children-minorities.html)

  4. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/28/science/00VIRUS-KIDS-EXPLAINER1/00VIRUS-KIDS-EXPLAINER1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [A Parent’s Toughest Call: In-Person Schooling or Not?

Parents are wrestling with difficult choices over sending their children to
school. Here’s how one science reporter made the decision.

By Apoorva Mandavilli

](/2020/09/01/health/coronavirus-parents-schools.html)

  5. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/03/us/us-briefing-promo-image-print/us-briefing-promo-image-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Covid-19 Live Updates: C.D.C. Halts Evictions, Citing Health Risks

Florida severed ties with Quest for taking too long to report test results.
Medical experts cast doubt on the use of antibody-rich plasma to help
hospitalized coronavirus patients.

](/2020/09/01/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html)

  6. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/25/nyregion/00nywhales01/00nywhales01-thumbWide-v2.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [What It Took to Free a Whale Entangled in 4,000 Pounds of Fishing Gear

The influx of whales to cleaner waters off New York City has meant that the
number of them injured or killed there is on the rise.

By Annie Roth

](/2020/09/01/nyregion/whale-rescue-ny-harbor.html)

  7. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/autossell/Onsite-Promo-Next-Pandemic-083120-final/Onsite-Promo-Next-Pandemic-083120-final-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [Who’s to Blame for the Pandemic?

“How to Stop the Next Pandemic,” a Times documentary, reveals how your choices
make future pandemics more likely.

By Jonah M. Kessel

](/2020/09/01/video/coronavirus-pandemics-causes.html)

  8. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/08/31/climate/31CLI-COAL1/31CLI-COAL1-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [E.P.A. Relaxes Rules Limiting Toxic Waste From Coal Plants

The agency weakened Obama-era rules meant to keep metals and other pollution
out of rivers and streams, saving industry tens of millions of dollars.

By Lisa Friedman

](/2020/08/31/climate/trump-coal-plants.html)

  9. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/science/00VIRUS-FACEBLIND/00VIRUS-FACEBLIND-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [In an Era of Face Masks, We’re All a Little More Face Blind

Your brain’s powers of facial recognition are going to need some time to get
used to the coverings we’re wearing to keep each other healthy.

By Elizabeth Preston

](/2020/08/31/health/covid-masks-face-blindness.html)

  10. ![](https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/01/us/31virus-thumbnail/merlin_175997361_b739fb8a-cf36-40cd-9561-ed8aed028b2f-thumbWide.jpg?quality=75&auto=webp&disable=upscale)

## [The Midwest Sees a Spike as Covid-19 Cases Decline Elsewhere

In nine U.S. states, case numbers are still rising or setting records. The
virus is pummeling the economies of India and South Korea. Hong Kong began a
Beijing-backed testing program.

](/2020/08/31/world/covid-19-coronavirus.html)

Show More

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Sign Up for the Science Times Newsletter

Every week, we'll bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human
body, nature and the cosmos.

[SIGN UP](/newsletters/signup/SC)

Advertisement

Continue reading the main story

## Follow Us

  * __[NYTimesSciencefacebook page for NYTimesScience](https://www.facebook.com/NYTimesScience)
  * __[@NYTSciencetwitter page for @NYTScience](https://twitter.com/NYTScience)

## Site Index

## Site Information Navigation

  * [© 2020 The New York Times Company](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014792127-Copyright-notice)
  * [NYTCo](https://www.nytco.com/)
  * [Contact Us](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115015385887-Contact-Us)
  * [Work with us](https://www.nytco.com/careers/)
  * [Advertise](https://nytmediakit.com/)
  * [T Brand Studio](http://www.tbrandstudio.com/)
  * [Your Ad Choices](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy/cookie-policy#how-do-i-manage-trackers)
  * [Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/privacy)
  * [Terms of Service](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893428-Terms-of-service)
  * [Terms of Sale](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us/articles/115014893968-Terms-of-sale)
  * [Site Map](https://spiderbites.nytimes.com)
  * [Help](https://help.nytimes.com/hc/en-us)
  * [Subscriptions](https://www.nytimes.com/subscription?campaignId=37WXW)

